# Writeup 10 - Crypto I

Name: George Gaynor
Section: 0101

I pledge on my honor that I have not given or received any unauthorized assistance on this assignment or examination.

Digital acknowledgement: George Gaynor


## Assignment details

### Part 1 (45 Pts)
1. In the ledger file, the hashes are each offset by 16 bytes.
2. The specific crypotgraphic algortihm used by ledger.c is md5_hash. This might pose a risk because it does not ensure secure anything on its own, as it is just a one-way function. It can be cracked if the attacker knows how it was specifically implemented.
3. The file size of ledger.bin is 656 bytes.
4. The application ensures Confidentiality by encrypting before writing to the file. The encryption key is derived using the md5_hash algorithm. 
5. The application ensures Integrity by checking the hash being compared is actually in the ledger file and is equal to the actual hash. 
6. The application ensures Authenticity by first hashing the input using the md5_hash algorithm, then hashing the first two bytes of the original hash, using the same algorithm. This is flawed because it can be easily cracked by bruteforce/random string generation methods.
7. The initialization vector is generated by creating a random sequence of bytes with the RAND_bytes function and is stored in the cipher params struct, in params.iv.

### Part 2 (45 Pts)

The flag is CMSC389R-{k3y5p4c3_2_sm411}

NOTE: Unfortunately, I was running out of time before I had to leave and I could not get ./ledger `writeup/crack` to work properly, and I also could not get ./ledger `./crack` to work properly. As a result, I left ./crack in the week10 folder and the executable works by itself. 

### Part 3 (10 Pts)

I think the balance lies somewhere in between security through obscurity and Kerckhoff's principle. One should not rely solely on security through obscurity because if an attacker has access to the key for the system, then the obscurity of the implementation no longer matters. One should also not rely solely on Kerckhoff's principle because it is still possible to crack keys if an attacker has access to system implementation. It is best to include elements of all possible strategies. 

