# Writeup 8 - Binaries II

Name: *PUT YOUR NAME HERE*
Section: *PUT YOUR SECTION NUMBER HERE*

I pledge on my honor that I have not given or received any unauthorized assistance on this assignment or examination.

Digital acknowledgement: *PUT YOUR NAME HERE*

## Assignment Writeup

### Part 1 (100 pts)
Answer the following questions regarding the server executable (for which source is provided).

1. How is the per-session administrator password generated? Are there any inherent weaknesses in this implementation?

The per-session administrator password is generated by a for loop in the main function. Memory is allocated for the string and the characters are randomized using the rand() function. The characters used are alphanumeric characters and symbols. An inherent weakness is that input of memory size larger than the constant PASS_SIZE, can cause the program to crash.

2. Describe two vulnerabilities in this program. Provide specific line numbers and classifications of the vulnerability. Explain potential ramifications as well as ways to avoid these vulnerabilities when writing code.

One vulnerability is that in the cipher() function, passing string format specifiers, into the input returns non-encrypted values. This vulernability is found at line number 35. These values could possibly be returned as a memory address and sensitive data could be pulled from the memory address. Another vulnerability is that you could force the program to terminate by overloading variables and the specific format specifier %f can force the program to segfault.

3. What is the flag?

4. Describe the process you followed to obtain the flag: vulnerabilities exploited, your inputs to the server in a human-readable format, etc. If you create any helper code please include it.

The first thing I tested was to see if I could overflow any variables when asked for input. After examining the source code, I found that I could overflow the buffer at the cipher() function passing in more than 32 bytes of data. I also found out that I could exploit the buffers in the cipher() function by passing in format specifiers.
